README.md, before:

# monobind
monobind is a lightweight header-only library that exposes C++ types in C# and vice versa, mainly to create C# bindings of existing C++ code. It is inspired by the excellent library [Boost.Python](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_74_0/libs/python) and tries to achieve simular goals of minimizing boilerplate code when implementing interoperability between C++ and C#.

### Dependencies
monobind requires at least C++14 compatible compiler to run. It only depends on [mono](https://www.mono-project.com/) - cross-platform .NET framework. You do not have to build it - simply install it from the official website to your system.

### Building
You can install monobind using Cmake. First of all, you should add the library to your project by executing the following git command: `git submodule add https://github.com/MomoDeve/monobind`. Then simply paste the code below into your `CMakeLists.txt`, replacing names & paths if necessary:
```CMake
// add monobind as subdirectory
add_subdirectory(${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/submodules/monobind)

// add monobind & mono include directories
target_include_directories(current_target PUBLIC ${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/submodules/monobind/include ${MONO_INCLUDE_DIR})
// add mono libraries
target_link_libraries(current_target ${MONO_LIBRARIES})
// add macro definition to do not hard-code path to mono directory
target_compile_definitions(current_target PUBLIC MONOBIND_MONO_ROOT="${MONO_ROOT_DIR}")
```
`FindMono.cmake` should find mono installation library. If it fails and you have mono properly installed, I will be glad to see your PR with fixing changes

### Usage
Firstly I should point out that monobind is still in development, so you may find many features missing. I am trying my best to make the library more convinient and waiting for your suggestions (or PRs). Code examples can be found in this repository, but if you do not have so much time, here is a baseline of what you can do using monobind:

*Consider having .cs and .cpp files with the following methods:*
```cs
using System;
using System.Runtime.CompilerServices;

namespace MonoBindExamples
{
    public class SimpleFunctionCall
    {
        [MethodImplAttribute(MethodImplOptions.InternalCall)]
        public static extern void HelloFromCpp();

        public static void HelloFromCSharp()
        {
            Console.WriteLine("C#: Hello!");

            HelloFromCpp();
        }
    }
}
```
```cpp
#include <iostream>

void hello_from_cpp()
{
    std::cout << "C++: Hello!" << std::endl;
}
```
In C# code we create a class with two static methods. One of them is defined in .cs file and calls the other, which is marked with `extern` and should point to our cpp function. To achieve this, we will embed mono runtime into our C++ executable, create a dynamic library from our .cs file and link them together. To begin with, let's initialize mono:
```cpp
// if you defined this macro in CMake, it should be equal to the path to the mono root directory
const char* path_to_mono = MONOBIND_MONO_ROOT;
monobind::mono mono(path_to_mono);
mono.init_jit("HelloWorldApplication");
```
With mono we can now compile our .cs file into a dynamic library and load it into the executable. We can use `monobind::compiler` which accepts path to mono root or mcs compiler. After that assembly can be loaded by passing mono domain and the library name:
```cpp
    // build csharp library
    monobind::compiler compiler(mono.get_root_dir());
    compiler.build_library("SimpleFunctionCall.dll", "SimpleFunctionCall.cs");

    // load assembly
    monobind::assembly assembly(mono.get_domain(), "SimpleFunctionCall.dll");
```
And now we can finally resolve method by passing its cpp implementation as callable object to mono. Invoking method is not that hard too - simply get the method by its signature and call it (you can also pass primitive types, aligned structures, C/C++ strings and arrays between C++ and C# with zero additional code!):
```cpp
// resolve external method in C# code
mono.add_internal_call<void()>("MonoBindExamples.SimpleFunctionCall::HelloFromCpp()", MONOBIND_CALLABLE(hello_from_cpp));

// call C# method
monobind::method method = assembly.get_method("MonoBindExamples.SimpleFunctionCall::HelloFromCSharp()");
method.invoke_static<void()>();
```

Commit message:

added method/field view, gc abstraction & more

README.md, after:

# monobind
monobind is a lightweight header-only library that exposes C++ types in C# and vice versa, mainly to create C# bindings of existing C++ code. It is inspired by the excellent library [Boost.Python](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_74_0/libs/python) and tries to achieve simular goals of minimizing boilerplate code when implementing interoperability between C++ and C#.

## Dependencies
monobind requires at least C++14 compatible compiler to run. It only depends on [mono](https://www.mono-project.com/) - cross-platform .NET framework. You do not have to build it - simply install it from the official website to your system.

## Building
You can install monobind using Cmake. First of all, you should add the library to your project by executing the following git command: `git submodule add https://github.com/MomoDeve/monobind`. Then simply paste the code below into your `CMakeLists.txt`, replacing names & paths if necessary:
```CMake
// add monobind as subdirectory
add_subdirectory(${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/submodules/monobind)

// add monobind & mono include directories
target_include_directories(current_target PUBLIC ${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/submodules/monobind/include ${MONO_INCLUDE_DIR})
// add mono libraries
target_link_libraries(current_target ${MONO_LIBRARIES})
// add macro definition to do not hard-code path to mono directory
target_compile_definitions(current_target PUBLIC MONOBIND_MONO_ROOT="${MONO_ROOT_DIR}")
```
`FindMono.cmake` should find mono installation library. If it fails and you have mono properly installed, I will be glad to see your PR with fixing changes

## Examples

Firstly I should point out that monobind is still in development, so you may find many features missing. I am trying my best to make the library more convinient and waiting for your suggestions (or PRs). Also, if you find the following examples not enough to understand how to use the library, consider looking through some code samples in /examples folder.

### Baseline
Here is the minimal code you have to write to call C# method from C++ and vice versa. Not arguments are passed between, so it requires the least amount of effort.

*Consider having .cs and .cpp files with the following methods:*
```cs
using System;
using System.Runtime.CompilerServices;

namespace MonoBindExamples
{
    public class SimpleFunctionCall
    {
        [MethodImplAttribute(MethodImplOptions.InternalCall)]
        public static extern void HelloFromCpp();

        public static void HelloFromCSharp()
        {
            Console.WriteLine("C#: Hello!");

            HelloFromCpp();
        }
    }
}
```
```cpp
#include <iostream>

void hello_from_cpp()
{
    std::cout << "C++: Hello!" << std::endl;
}
```
In C# code we create a class with two static methods. One of them is defined in .cs file and calls the other, which is marked with `extern` and should point to our cpp function. To achieve this, we will embed mono runtime into our C++ executable, create a dynamic library from our .cs file and link them together. To begin with, let's initialize mono:
```cpp
// if you defined this macro in CMake, it should be equal to the path to the mono root directory
const char* path_to_mono = MONOBIND_MONO_ROOT;
monobind::mono mono(path_to_mono);
mono.init_jit("HelloWorldApplication");
```
With mono we can now compile our .cs file into a dynamic library and load it into the executable. We can use `monobind::compiler` which accepts path to mono root or mcs compiler. After that assembly can be loaded by passing mono domain and the library name:
```cpp
    // build csharp library
    monobind::compiler compiler(mono.get_root_dir());
    compiler.build_library("SimpleFunctionCall.dll", "SimpleFunctionCall.cs");

    // load assembly
    monobind::assembly assembly(mono.get_domain(), "SimpleFunctionCall.dll");
```
And now we can finally resolve method by passing its cpp implementation as callable object to mono. Invoking method is not that hard too - simply get the method by its signature and call it (you can also pass primitive types, aligned structures, C/C++ strings and arrays between C++ and C# with zero additional code!):
```cpp
// resolve external method in C# code
mono.add_internal_call<void()>("MonoBindExamples.SimpleFunctionCall::HelloFromCpp()", MONOBIND_CALLABLE(hello_from_cpp));

// call C# method
monobind::method method = assembly.get_method("MonoBindExamples.SimpleFunctionCall::HelloFromCSharp()");
method.invoke_static<void()>();
```
